channels update (#558)
plausible/docs: docs/top-referrers.md

Using [the "**Filter**" button on the top of your dashboard](filters-segments.md), you can filter the stats by multiple channels, sources or UTM tags at the same time for more powerful traffic segmentation. You can also exclude traffic from a specific channel, referral source or UTM tag.

<img alt="Top Referrers - multiple filters" src={useBaseUrl('img/top-referrers-filtering-multiple-filters.png')} />

## Channels

In the "**Channels**" tab within the "**Top Sources**" report, you can see a breakdown of your sources into high-level categories such as "**Organic Social**" and "**Paid Search**". This allows you to segment your traffic between organic traffic and paid marketing campaigns. These are the definitions and descriptions of each channel available:

| Channel     | Definition        |
| :---------- | :---------------- |
| Organic Social           | List             |

Note that channel groupings and definitions may evolve as the market changes. We will keep this list up-to-date with any changes.

## Sources

> In the "**Sources**" tab within the "**Top Sources**" report, you can see the full list of your individual referral sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the "**Sources**" tab within the "**Top Sources**" report, you can see the full list of your individual referral sources. Some examples include "Google," "Facebook," "LinkedIn," "Reddit," "chatgpt," etc.
```

### Consolidation of duplicate sources

UTM tags are case-sensitive, which may lead to duplicated or miscategorized traffic sources all depending on how the different links are tagged. To mitigate this issue, the "**Sources**" tab in the "**Top Sources**" report consolidates each source into a single entry, disregarding capitalization or naming differences in UTM tags.

For instance, clicks you get from Facebook which are not tagged by UTMs are labeled with a referral source "**Facebook**" by Facebook itself. Suppose you tag some links that you share on Facebook with `utm_source=facebook`, `utm_source=fb` or `utm_source=facebook-ads`. In that case, clicks on those tagged links will be consolidated alongside organic clicks within the "**Facebook**" entry in the "**Sources**" tab of your "**Top Sources**" report providing a unified view of all Facebook clicks.

You can still isolate your UTM-tagged clicks from organic traffic and view their original labels in the "**Campaigns**" tab of "**Top Sources**".

### Keyword phrases from Google search

> Note that Google does not include the search keywords in the referrer. This means that you can see that a visitor is coming from a Google search but you can't see which keyword phrase they used to find you. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Google does not include the search keywords in the referrer. This means that you can see that a visitor is coming from a Google search but you can't see which keyword phrase they used to visit your site.
```

* `gclid`
* `gbraid`
* `wbraid`
* `msclkid`
* `fbclid`
* `twclid`

This is why we do recommend that you use UTM tags when tagging your paid ad campaigns. We do not strip the values of UTM tags. 

### How to track paid ad conversion attribution

Goals and custom events allow you to track actions that you want your visitors to take on your site. Actions such as registering for a trial account, purchasing a product or completing a checkout form of an ecommerce store. By [setting up goals and custom events](goal-conversions.md), you'll be able to follow the visitor journey from a paid ad click to a conversion on your site. 

Filter your dashboard by a specific goal to see the number of conversions, conversion rate (CR), referrer sources and entry pages that are driving conversions and the top pages that people convert on. You can also track [ecommerce revenue](ecommerce-revenue-tracking.md) and [set up funnels](funnel-analysis.md). This works even if your site operates [across multiple subdomains](subdomain-hostname-filter.md).

<img alt="Custom goal conversion rate" src={useBaseUrl('img/custom-goal-conversion-rate.png')} />

> Due to the privacy-first nature of Plausible and the fact that we don't use cookies and other long-term identifiers, the conversion attribution is based on last-click attribution. The referral source of the visit on which the purchase was made will be credited for that conversion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to Plausible’s privacy-first approach—without using cookies or long-term identifiers—conversion attribution relies on last-click attribution. This means the referral source of the visit leading to the purchase is credited for the conversion.
```

<img alt="Custom goal conversion rate" src={useBaseUrl('img/custom-goal-conversion-rate.png')} />

Due to the privacy-first nature of Plausible and the fact that we don't use cookies and other long-term identifiers, the conversion attribution is based on last-click attribution. The referral source of the visit on which the purchase was made will be credited for that conversion. 

## How to reduce the volume of dark traffic

Not all traffic to your website will have the referrer header specified in the browser. This "**dark traffic**" is why you see the "**Direct / None**" source in the "**Top Sources**" report. These are typically clicks from emails, documents, instant messengers, mobile apps or bookmarks.

### We attempt to uncover some direct traffic

By default, we attempt to uncover traffic originating from Android apps which is traditionally categorized as direct traffic in web analytics. The volume of these clicks in your "**Top Sources**" report will vary based on your site and audience.

### Tag all the links that you control

> To further minimize the amount of traffic that falls within the "**Direct / None**" category, you can add special query parameters such as UTM tags to your links whenever you post a link in social media, paid advertising or an email newsletter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further minimize the amount of traffic that falls within the "**Direct / None**" category, you can add special query parameters such as UTM tags to your links whenever you post a link in social media, paid advertising, an email newsletter, or anywhere else.
```
